---
title: "The role of AGN feedback on the evolution of dwarf galaxies from cosmological simulations"
collection: talks
type: "Talk"
permalink: /talks/CLUES2024
venue: "CLUES colaboration meeting"
date: 12/06/2024
location: "Warsav, Poland"
---

In this talk, I presented the main results of my first-author paper Arjona-Gálvez et al.
(2024), which investigates the impact of active galactic nucleus (AGN) feedback on
the evolution of dwarf galaxies using a modification of the AURIGA suite of
cosmological simulations. The study provides one of the first systematic analyses of
how supermassive black holes influence the star formation histories, gas content,
and dark matter of low-mass galaxies within a fully cosmological context. My results
demonstrated that even relatively low-supermassive black holes can substantially
suppress star formation in dwarf galaxies, thereby offering new insights into the
physical mechanisms that regulate their baryonic evolution.
As the principal author, I led all aspects of this project — from simulation analysis
and data processing using Pynbody and Python-based pipelines, to the
interpretation of the physical trends and the manuscript preparation. The work
bridges the gap between theoretical modeling and observational efforts to detect
AGN activity in dwarf galaxies, showing that feedback from supermassive black
holes may play an underestimated role in shaping their observable properties.
Presenting this research at the CLUES meeting allowed me to engage directly with
an international audience of experts in galaxy formation and the local universe. The
discussions following my talk were particularly valuable for contextualizing my
findings within broader questions of feedback efficiency and environmental
dependence.


---
title: "A new galaxy size definition across different state-of-art hydrodynamical simulations"
collection: talks
type: "Talk"
permalink: /talks/CLUES2024
venue: "CLUES colaboration meeting"
date: 11/06/2024
location: "Warsav, Poland"
---

This talk presented the work that became Arjona-Gálvez et al. (2025), analyzing a
new, physically motivated definition of galaxy size applicable across multiple
cosmological simulation suites. This work provides a consistent framework for
comparing galaxy structure and morphology between simulations with differing
numerical resolutions and feedback prescriptions. The methodology was applied to
large datasets from the AURIGA, HESTIA, NIHAO and FIRE-2 simulations, revealing
that traditional size metrics can bias interpretations of galaxy growth. By basing the
definition on star formation thresholds rather than surface brightness profiles, the
study improves the connection between simulated and observed galaxies.
Presenting this work at the CLUES meeting, which brings together leading experts in
cosmological simulations and local universe studies, provided an invaluable platform
to discuss the implications of this new approach. The audience feedback contributed
to refining the statistical framework and validating the robustness of the definition
across environments. This was one of two talks I gave at the conference, reflecting
the relevance and visibility of my research within the computational astrophysics
community.
